Note:  Please be aware that this homework assignment was posted on Slack on 9-6-21 prior to the deadline.  It is 4x longer than it is required to be and deals with four articles becaue I love ethics in CS!  I did not realize that it needed to be posted in the repository.

Alex Moore  9:55 AM
Ethics in Computer Science
Hunter College Advanced Certificate Program
9-6-21

Article #1:  _The Guardian_:  "Apple Blocking Ads that Follow Uses around Web is 'Sabotage,' Says Industry" 
URL:  https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/sep/18/apple-stopping-ads-follow-you-around-internet-sabotage-advertising-industry-ios-11-and-macos-high-sierra-safari-internet
What it says:  Six major advertising groups have expressed displeasure with Apple software that limits the use of cookies in the Safari Web browser to track users around the Internet, often without their knowledge.  
Why it matters:  My understanding from reading _Blown to Bits_ is that courts have found that there is no right to privacy enshrined in America’s Constitution.  Thus, unless state laws explicitly place limitations on data collection, such as what we have seen in California, the use of browser history from third parties - often without the knowledge or explicit consent of the user - is legally permissible.  Moreover, it is true that targeted online advertising has grown tremendously in recent years compared to other forms of advertising and does contribute to the U.S. economy in a significant way.  Until more users appreciate the risks involved with making so much information readily available to third parties and also essentially anyone with whom those parties wish to share it, we will continue to have less restrictive data privacy rules than are seen in much of Europe.  Given the generational divide about the privacy issue, however, with younger Americans voicing more disregard for privacy in nationwide surveys, this day may never come.
Article #2:  _Harvard Magazine_:  “Code Is Law:  Our Liberty in Cyberspace”  
URL:  https://www.harvardmagazine.com/2000/01/code-is-law-html
What it says:  This article counters a widely held belief:  That it would be extremely difficult to censor or monitor the Internet and that people should not mobilize to do this because the nature of the Internet is to allow for free expression and relative anonymity.  Indeed, the article presents an alternative view, explaining that the Internet is changing and that it is possible to build new architectures over TCP/IP and other network protocols that allows for greater identification, restrictions, and accountability.
Why it matters:   If the possibility exists for creators of network architecture to make the user easy to identify, therefore, the implication is that people should feel empowered to make this happen with legislation.  Failure to do so would give those powers to the designers of the network architecture and the private sector.  I have mixed feelings about this argument.  It is true, for example, that a teenager could not see an R-rated movie at a theater.  Shouldn’t the same societal rules apply on the Web if we have the power to enforce them?  On the other hand, anonymity can be beneficial when the government itself is dangerous - such as that of North Korea - and the individual is advocating for a more just society.
Article #3:  _Washington Post_:  “She Recorded Herself Making Racial Slurs on MLK Day.  Her College Expelled Her.”  
URL:  https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2018/01/17/she-recorded-herself-making-racial-slurs-on-mlk-day-her-college-expelled-her/
What it says:  University of Alabama freshman Haley Barber was expelled from her university for posting racist messages on Instagram.  She did this on a supposedly anonymous secondary Instagram account that was nonetheless easily identifiable.  The student has apologized for her actions through _The New York Post_.
Why it matters:  This article shows that users who believe their data can be shared without accountability are sometimes surprised that they do not have the level of anonymity that they believed they had.  This can be due to decisions made by the user or those made by the forces of accountability.  Many readers may be incredulous that a university student could be so naive as to believe that a recorded video posted to social media could be a vehicle for anonymous communication, but I believe that she is far from alone.  A large number of Americans are either unaware of or indifferent to the extent to which their online activity can be tracked and the consequences of this monitoring.  This article also serves as a bit of a rebuke to the points made by the author of the _Harvard Magazine_ piece in that bad behavior is indeed often easily trackable online.
Article #4:  _The Atlantic_:  “Is Google Making Us Stupid?”  
URL:  https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/07/is-google-making-us-stupid/306868/
What it says:  The Internet provides us access to almost unlimited information; paradoxically, this is leading us to consume less, not more.  It is promoting breadth over depth.  This is evident by the dramatic decrease in English majors in colleges across The United States and the updating of the English curricula nationwide to prioritize shorter nonfiction texts.  
Why it matters:  This has the most profound effect on us as educators that one could imagine:  I have read comments of a significant number of certified teachers working in the field who are now arguing that learning is no longer necessary.  After all, the argument goes, much of what is worth knowing already exists online, so we should just teach students how to search for it.  Why is it valuable for students to have a nuanced understanding of Chaucer’s _The Canterbury Tales_ in their brains when a quick JStor search can pull up the distilled arguments of the prominent scholars?  My answer is one word:  context.  If we are encouraging our students to think and act critically and independently, we cannot expect them to know what to search for, much less understand it once they find it.  Even worse, the student who has not developed content-area knowledge cannot join the intellectual community in a meaningful way, failing to add to the academic discourse.  The student whose teacher has decided that Google has all the answers who has merely been taught research skills is a passive consumer of content that has been curated for them by algorithms.  This is not just limited to the humanities - as the article suggests. We as teachers must remember that our primary job is to help students develop _content-area knowledge_ in their own minds and use this to engage with others and make a positive difference in the world.  If we fail to do this, our institutions, businesses, and academic communities will suffer.